R/R.md, before:

# 04.05.24

```R
# Load built-in datasets and show what is available
data()
```

```R
# move new column before existing column 1
mutate(new_column = x - y, .before = 1)

# move new column before specified column by name
mutate(new_column = x - y, .before = soneColumnName)

# Example
nycflights13::flights |> 
  mutate(
    gain = dep_delay - arr_delay,
    speed = distance / air_time * 60,
    .before = 1,
    .keep = "used"
  )
```

# 02.05.24

```R
# modulo: result is the remainder 1
7 %% 2

# regular division: result is 3.5
7 / 2

# integer division: result is 3
7 %/% 2
```

## 21.04.24

```R
# returns the directory (all parts) of a file path, but not the file name
dirname(file.path("","p1","p2","p3", "filename"))
# "/p1/p2/p3"

# returns the base (last part) of a file path
basename(file.path("","p1","p2","p3", "filename"))
# "filename"
```

## 01.10.23
#### RStudio: Switching between the console and the code editor without using your mouse (Mac)

```command line
ctrl 1 (for code editor)
ctrl 2 (for console)
```

Commit message:

facet_grig vs facet_wrap

R/R.md, after:

## 13.07.24

<a href="https://github.com/GrigorijSchleifer/codeNewbie/tree/main/R">R</a>

```R
# facet_grid() forms a matrix of panels defined by row and column faceting variables. It is most useful when you have two discrete variables,
ggplot(mpg, aes(x = displ, y = hwy)) + 
  geom_point() + 
  facet_grid(drv ~ cyl)
  ```

## 12.07.24

```R
# This vignette summarises the various formats that grid drawing functions take. Most of this information is available scattered throughout the R documentation. This appendix brings it all together in one place.
vignette("ggplot2-specs")
````

# 04.05.24

```R
# Load built-in datasets and show what is available
data()
```

```R
# move new column before existing column 1
mutate(new_column = x - y, .before = 1)

# move new column before specified column by name
mutate(new_column = x - y, .before = soneColumnName)

# Example
nycflights13::flights |> 
  mutate(
    gain = dep_delay - arr_delay,
    speed = distance / air_time * 60,
    .before = 1,
    .keep = "used"
  )
```

# 02.05.24

```R
# modulo: result is the remainder 1
7 %% 2

# regular division: result is 3.5
7 / 2

# integer division: result is 3
7 %/% 2
```

## 21.04.24

```R
# returns the directory (all parts) of a file path, but not the file name
dirname(file.path("","p1","p2","p3", "filename"))
# "/p1/p2/p3"

# returns the base (last part) of a file path
basename(file.path("","p1","p2","p3", "filename"))
# "filename"
```

## 01.10.23
#### RStudio: Switching between the console and the code editor without using your mouse (Mac)

```command line
ctrl 1 (for code editor)
ctrl 2 (for console)
```
